# What is it?

Diskv (disk-vee) is a simple key-value store written in the Go language. It
starts with an incredibly simple API for storing arbitrary data on a filesystem
by key, and builds several layers of performance-enhancing abstraction on top.
The end result is a conceptually simple, but highly performant, disk-backed
storage system.

# Basic idea

At its core, diskv is a map of a key (`string`) to arbitrary data (`[]byte`).
The data is written to a single file on disk, with the same name as the key.
The key determines where that file will be stored, via a user-provided
`TransformFunc`, which takes a key and returns a slice (`[]string`)
corresponding to a path list where the key file will be stored. The simplest
TransformFunc,

```
func SimpleTransform (key KeyType) []string {
    return []string{""}
}
```

will place all keys in the same, base directory. The design is inspired by
[Redis diskstore][1]; implementing a TransformFunc to emulate the default
diskstore behavior is left as an exercise for the reader.

[1]: http://groups.google.com/group/redis-db/browse_thread/thread/d444bc786689bde9?pli=1

Probably the most important design principle behind diskv is that your data is
always flatly available on the disk. diskv will never do anything that would
prevent you from accessing, copying, backing up, or otherwise interacting with
your data via common UNIX commandline tools.

# Adding a cache

An in-memory caching layer is provided by combining the BasicStore
functionality with a simple map structure, and keeping it up-to-date as
appropriate. Since the map structure in Go is not threadsafe, it's combined
with a RWMutex  to provide safe concurrent access. Note that the mutex
synchronizes only the cache, not the underlying Basic Store.

# Adding order

diskv is a key-value store and therefore inherently unordered. An ordering
system can be grafted on by combining the Store functionality with [Petar
Maymounkov's Left-leaning Red-black tree implementation][2]. Basically, diskv
can keep an in-memory index of the keys, ordered by a user-provided LessThan
function. The index is na√Øvely populated at startup from the keys on-disk, and
kept up-to-date as appropriate.

[2]: https://github.com/petar/GoLLRB 

# Future plans
 
 * Needs plenty of robust testing: huge datasets, etc... 
 * More thorough benchmarking
 * Your suggestions for use-cases I haven't thought of
